Two things that I know Mr. Benson was working on
that was very important. He knew that the
enrollment of Texas A&M, A&M's future, we either
had to increase the enrollment or we had to decide
what Texas A&M was going to be at that time because
enrollment was not growing. It was static. And I'm
not sure why, but UT Arlington at that time was
separated from Texas A&M. That was a part of the A&M
system, and why the decision was made to
relinquish that and go to the UT system, I'm not
sure, but I do remember working on some of those
proposals. I don't know who recommended it, and I
remember a man by the name, seemed like his name was
Dr. Wolf, that was the first president of UT
Arlington, what became UT Arlington. It had been
Arlington State? Yes, it had been Arlington
State. I don't know exactly what our presence was
there and why we decided to give it up. I don't know
how those proposals came about. I think that that
was the board's plan is they would take all the A&M
money and put it in one place. And what they did was
to narrow the political base that Texas A&M and the
system could call upon. And, of course, now
there's exactly the opposite. The opposite,
right. Yeah. I can remember him writing letters on
proposals that we must work in the legislature to
increase salaries for faculty that the salaries
were so low that if A&M were to ever attract and
today we still see that same statement being made
we must stay competitive in salaries and he worked
hard to try to do that and I would see some of the
salary letters actually I typed a lot of the salary
letters in engineering and I can remember I
thought they were fairly good salaries at that
time but an engineer graduating, if he got a salary
offer of seven or eight thousand dollars a year,
that was a high salary going out with a bachelor's
degree in engineering. So if you saw a faculty
person's salary that many of the faculty made no
more than that, that seemed like a good salary, and
of course it was a pathetic salary at that time. Did
y'all ever think about transferring or dropping
out of college? No, that was never an option. No, we
never considered that. You were determined to...
Oh yeah, we came to stay for Don to graduate. And
there weren't any crisis semesters in terms of his
grades. Yes, last semester, just before
graduation, he had made a D in one of his petroleum
engineering classes, and you had to take an
additional test to make sure that you were going to
graduate because you couldn't graduate with that
D in your major, even in one course. And I think he
made a C in that course, and he graduated. But it was
a little tense that one semester. As you... you
remember the routine. As the years went on, did the
hours of work and study for both of you continue
about the same? Well, they were intense. I can
remember one year at Easter, we didn't even
consider going home because Don had a major
project that was due, and he spent the entire, we
used to get Thursday and Friday before Easter off,
and then the Saturday and Sunday, and he spent the
entire four days, he and Jack Little and a few of the
others spent at the petroleum engineering lab,
and Come to find out when they returned the next
Monday, there were a few of them gave up on the
problem and went home. They found out from the
professor it was unsolvable. So we had stayed here
the holiday to an unsolvable problem. And he was
testing them to see if they came up with a solution.
If we could interview some of the cross-section of
his classmates, who do you think they would say
were their favorite teachers, the ones they most
appreciated? I wish I could remember all the names
in the Petroleum Engineering Department. Many
would name Mr. Whiting, Dr. Pettigo,
There were others. I'd have to look at it. If I could
look at an annual, I can remember the names. What
about in some of the courses that were support
outside petroleum engineering? Were there some
people in other courses that they? Yeah, there was
a history class that they all loved. Remember who
taught
it? I dealt with that without looking at the
annual. When we get the transcript back, if I can
remember the names, I'll plug them in for you. And
were there some courses that they feared, that
were tough?
Well, there probably were. Like chemistry, math,
physics? Oh, I remember Don and Bob Lacy
complaining more about calculus than they did
anything. They studied together and argued
together around my kitchen table a lot. But I think
they knew that if anybody could pass them, if you
worked hard enough, you could do it. That was the
worst thing. Where did Lacy live in those days? He
lived in the dorm on campus without a car. So the
first two years, I don't think he had a car. He might
have had one the last two years. But he spent a lot of
time at our department. And
let's try to look at the student body from a
different point of view. Describe the typical.
person who lived at College View? Were they Anglo?
Were they working class? Were they from Texas?
The majority of students in the 56 to 60 were Texans
that lived there. Tuition was very low at Texas
A&M. There wasn't even a building use fee.
Rent was cheap in College View. All the people that
lived in College View were married. The single
people did live usually in the dorms on campus.
There wasn't much off-campus living for
students.
The majority had very little money, so money was
not an issue. You didn't feel out of place, that we
weren't trying to keep up with the Joneses, so to
speak. Some had fairly good running cars, and
others had some that didn't run so well. Some of us
carpooled. We took our own lunches. There wasn't
any place to eat on campus. So you packed your
lunch, or you went home for lunch. What would have
been a typical lunch for you that you packed? um a
bologna sandwich and chips and a piece of fruit
don't remember taking a drink so there must have
been a coke machine in the building but you know
lots of bologna sandwiches when we were in school
and
of these students were they all small small town or
big city or Well, they were from both. Houston,
Dallas were most of the from that came from the
city. And then we came, of course, from near the
Abilene area. I don't remember a lot of students
from far West Texas coming here. I suspect they
were going to Tech rather than coming here. And I
don't remember a lot from the Valley coming here.
So we were a little town. You really wanted to come
to Texas A&M to be here. And on the weekends, did
pretty well everybody stay here? Oh, no, a lot of
the Corps went home, and then there were weigh
stations along the way for the Corps,
particularly at Waco, and you could just stand in
the weigh station, and they hitchhiked a lot. But
you knew if you were in your Corps uniform,
somebody would pick you up. Did you? We always
picked up students. Did you? If we were on Sunday
coming home or if we were going home on Friday, we'd
pick up students if they were going our direction.
Were they always well-behaved when you picked
them up? We never had a problem. We didn't think
about that. I haven't run into anybody yet who
remembers having a problem either as the one who
picks them up or the one who was picked up. No. Two or
three have said some guy tried to buy them a little
more beer than they should have, or he drove too
fast, but that's the worst thing they've ever
mentioned. Yeah, we never had any problem. Let's
see, on that, for you as a young woman, did any
single Aggie ever attempt to flirt with you when
you were in the office or anything? Oh, yes.
Really? Yes, you have that. But you can handle it
very much like you do today. You let them know
you're not interested, and they behaved. They
were well-behaved. They knew your boss was right
behind the door, and so they didn't really try a lot
of things. As far as y'all were aware, if anybody
had really wanted to go and venture a little, where
did Aggies go to drink beer or anything else? There
was a place on Texas Avenue fairly close to where,
what's the coffee shop over here on Texas Avenue
right across from them? The breakfast place.
Denny's? Denny's. There was a place there that
some drank beer. I can't remember the name of it.
There was a place called Martin's that they could
drink beer. And then some went to the river, so to
speak. To Whiskey Bridge? To Whiskey Bridge, so to
speak, yes, to drink. Did married students ever go
to the clay pits to swim? I don't know what the clay
pits were. There was a place out here, and it was an
old, where they had scooped clay out of the ground,
and there was water in there, stagnant water, and
that's where students would sometimes go to swim
and drink a little bit of beer. I wasn't even aware
it was there. But we came here as married students,
so we were never in that single life of... Did you
all ever have beer at your apartment? Yes, for
special occasions. Sometimes the whole
apartment complex would have a Friday night
cookout, cook hamburgers. We might have a little
beer. I'm not sure that we could have beer outside
the apartments. In student housing, you could
have it inside. And all of the area, the green space
where College View is now, At that time, that was
full of apartments, is that right? That's
correct, yes. It was just row after row of
apartments. Was the coin-operated
wash-a-terrier up near where the Ramada would be
built? Was it yet there? That one wasn't there, but
there was a coin-operated one near Erleberg
Shopping Center because I do remember taking
laundry on Saturday Once I got a washing machine,
I'd take it up there to dry it. So I know there was a
coin-operated one on Texas Avenue near the Early
Bird Shopping Center. As far as you can recall,
about what percentage of the people that you knew
in College View had a washing machine?
Oh, maybe 50. And no one had a dryer because they
weren't wired for a dryer. You didn't even have. So
it wouldn't matter if you could afford. Yeah. And
about how many had a TV?
Oh, probably 50%. And telephone?
Fifty to sixty percent, yeah. Did you all stay in
the same apartment? Yes. Three and a half years.
Three and a half years. Now in the summers, what was
the routine for you all? summer classes. Don was in
class by seven. He always took at least six hours
each term. We had two long terms and work and study
and maybe a driving movie and that was it. Did y'all
keep the paper route a long time? Probably a couple
of years. And you stayed in the dean's office all
that time? Except for the one year that I worked in
the placement office. Yeah, yeah. I worked in the
placement office from September 56 to November
57, and then in the dean's office until Don
graduated in May of 60.
Let's see, and you never thought about dropping
out, never thought about transferring.
No grade, no grade crises. Except one course.
Yeah, yeah. And there was, I'm not sure there was,
I'm not sure you could drop a course and have a cue
drop as you do today. So that was never an option.
You didn't think about cue dropping a course.
Right. Can you remember your husband going to seek
the advice of somebody, some faculty member, and
in hindsight the advice that he got was important?
or somebody gave him guidance, counsel, that
turned out to be him? Well, yes. He was a student
member of Tau Beta Pi, the Engineering Honor
Society. And one of his best friends was running
for president of the Engineering Honor Society.
His name was Michael McGuire. And he was the,
matter of fact, he was the, had the highest grade
point ratio on campus of any student. And so Don was
working in his campaign. Someone suggested that
Don run, and of course he didn't consider doing
that at all, because he was going to work for Mike,
and then he was nominated from the floor the night
of the election and was elected president of
Taubatuckapai. I didn't really want to go to work
the next morning because I was working for Mr.
McGuire, the father of Mike McGuire at that time,
and I knew that was not going to be a real happy day
for him. But it turned out that Don's faculty
person had told him, you know, this would be a good
thing for him to do because he'd go to national
meetings and be exposed to some things that he
wouldn't be exposed to on campus. And sure enough,
he got to go to the national convention, which was
held at...
trying to remember where it was held. Anyway, I do
remember that he had to have at least two suits to
go, and he didn't have those. And so we had to figure
out how to save enough money for him to get two suits
to go to the National Convention. It was at Purdue.
That's where it was held, yeah. So that turned out
to be good advice for him and made him a lot more so,
gave him a lot more confidence in what he could do.
All right, now you're mentioning the two suits.
What would have been his and your wardrobe at that?
How many outfits? Well, I can remember very
carefully, I can remember when I was pregnant how
many I had. I had exactly,
the first time I was pregnant, I think I had four.
And so you worked five days a week, so you had to
figure out how to get it washed and dried and ironed
so you could, have another time. And then in 1960,
when I was pregnant, I think I actually had five
outfits that I could wear. And even when I wasn't
pregnant, there was very limited wardrobe. I had
come with a few clothes. How many winter coats,
long coats? Oh, you only had one. You didn't even
consider having more than that. And a pair of
shoes. Well, I probably had two. I had a very hard
foot to fit, and I had to order my shoes, and they
were very expensive, so I might have had two. And
did a woman working in the office wear high heels?
Oh, yes, yes. We were expected to wear high heels,
yes. And sweaters? Yeah, we could wear sweaters.
But they were just like a cordigan sweater that we
would wear. Do you remember any woman ever
attempting to push the dress code during that era?
No, not really. Because don't I remember, weren't
you the one under Calhoun that went on behalf of the
group to ask if it would be all right to wear
dress slacks, pantsuits, I want to say. Because I
thought it would. This is in the 70s. This is in the
70s. Yes, I think I did ask Calhoun if we could wear a
pantsuit because pantsuits had come in into the
70s as an outfit. And wasn't his response to kind of
chuckle? Yeah, he did. And say, of course? Of
course, he did. But we didn't have any pantsuits
during the 50s. It was dresses. Were there any
scandals during the 50s that you heard of on campus
of a secretary and some important person? We're
not going to name any names. Were there any
scandals of somebody courting somebody else's
secretary, anything like that? I've not heard of
any. If there were, I wasn't aware of them. Because
I remember one time hearing Dean Benson say that he
thought the unwritten rules at that point were you
never serve alcohol at an event where there are
students. That's correct. If you are divorcing or
heading toward a divorce and you get another job at
another institution, and if you're gambling,
playing poker or anything like that for money, You
closed the blinds and the curtains. I remember
there were a few faculty members that had a
drinking problem during the 50s. And they were
brought in for counseling by Mr. Benson or Mr.
Crawford.
But other than that, those were probably the only
scandals. What about faculty members meeting
class? How often did they fail to meet class? I
wasn't aware that they never not showed. And how
many hours a day were they available for students?
Oh, they were there all day. Any time a student
wanted to see their faculty member, they could go
by, and they would be there unless they were in
class teaching another section. So finding your
prof was not a problem during the 50s. And how did
faculty members dress in that era? usually just
pants and shirt, tie, and many times they very few
wore coats, and there certainly were no sandals,
and there were no shorts.
What about their haircut and their facial hair?
They could have some facial hair, but they usually
had short hair. There was no long hair. Did they
have beards? I'm not sure. Some of them may have had
some beard, but it was well-trimmed. There were no
long beards, no long hair, no ponytails, no blue
jeans.
During the 50s, were there any student, far-out
activities here?
Well, when you say far out, there were some things
like the Corps would allow women to come into the
dorms, and that was against the rules. And then
they would do crazy things like put them in the
laundry bags to get them out of the dorms so that no
one would know they were there. So yes, we heard
about some of those and some of the names of some of
the dorms and some of the names of the women that
were brought in for that. Those were crazy
activities that took place, and then
occasionally students would go during deer
season and shoot deer and then gut it and clean it in
the shower stalls within the dorms. But those
students were single students usually that were
living in the dorms, very few married students in
the dorms. Did your husband do any hunting or
fishing while you all were here? No. We camped out a
couple of times.
near Huntsville, just a tent to cook out overnight
and just to sleep out on cots and things like that.
But we were not big hunters or fishermen. How often
did you all go to Houston or Dallas or Austin? We
never went to Austin. And we went to Houston to the
Fat Stock Show. And Dallas, we went maybe... once
or twice a year with the Smithwicks because his
family lived there on Campbell Road in
Richardson. Richard Dick Smithwick was one of
them. Well, he was the first Bear Bryant recruit
out of Richardson, Texas. And we'd go there to stay
with his family a couple of times a year. A while
ago, I meant to ask, were there any Hispanic
students living anywhere near you all? Did you
know any Hispanic?
Well, I don't know that they were Hispanic. We
didn't think about it as Hispanic. There were some
from Puerto Rico. Okay. But they probably came
here through way of Louisiana. And how were they
received? Well received. They were good friends.
I mean, we didn't think about them any
differently. As far as I remember, though, there
were no African-American students here at that
time. I cannot remember any African-American
students. Were there any Jewish students? Oh,
yeah, there were Jewish students here. And how
were they? Well, we just saw them as the same
classmate, you know, as an equal classmate. There
was not a lot of discrimination, I don't think,
here in the 50s, early 60s. People were here for an
education. It was a serious business. And
thinking about your future career, I think that
was the main goals of students. We were not
concerned a lot about student life. That was not a
big issue on campus. To fit you in with the culture
was not the university's goal. It was academics
and studies. Would you all walk from College View
over to the MSC sometimes after? No, we usually
drove. Oh, did you? Yeah, we had a car most of the
time, and we would normally drive. Would you
sometimes get at the snack bar? No, not a lot. We
didn't have a lot of discretionary funds, so we
didn't do that. the, let's
see, we talked about the churches and so forth, and
I was trying to think about other diversity
issues. Women were were politely treated by the
students. Oh, every student spoke to you, yes.
Howdy was a typical response. They spoke first and
expected you to speak back. Now, there was no
effort, no campaign to orient you student wives
about Aggie traditions. If there was, it was
through your own departmental club, if you did. So
after you, say, joined petroleum engineering
wives, they may have talked about traditions, but
no, I don't remember any orientation for me. And
then when your husband graduated, the wife got a
little diploma that said putting hubby through.
Most of us put it up in our laundry rooms. Was there a
Breckenridge hometown club? No, not that I
remember. There might have been, but I wasn't
really involved in it at all. When did you begin to
feel that you were part of the Aggie group, the
Aggie family? How long did that take?
I think we were much, felt much more a part of the
Aggie family after we left than when we were here.
Oh, really? Uh-huh. Because we were so busy while
we were here, you didn't think about those things.
And then as A&M began to grow and its reputation
began to increase, I think we were proud to have
been Aggies, I guess. So the pride was more after
than while here? Uh-huh. For us, it was. We didn't
have anyone that, you know, our ties were not as
strong. But we realized our future was built on
what we had accomplished here, yes. Don's degree
served him well.
Right. And there was no, he didn't do a summer
working somewhere out for a company? No, he had
already done that so that he got academic credit
for that internship because he had done prior work
and certified that. Okay, and what was the
activity then? How were young men prepared for
their interviews and that first job? I don't think
there was a lot of preparation. I think you came by
the placement office, got your credentials
ready, signed up for your interviews and showed up
for your interviews, but there was not an
orientation as to how to conduct yourself in that
interview. And do you remember where the
interviews were held? Oh, they were held at the
placement office. Which was, okay, where then?
the little building that was torn down, the frame
building that was torn down.
There might have been a few in the MSC if they ran out
of space. And I remember that a lot of the companies
came and always seemed very polite to us. The
interviewers came.
What, for you all in the dean's office, What
feedback did you all get from the interviewers
about their impression of the Aggies? Most of the
impressions that I got came from the placement
office rather than the dean's office. The
feedback came to Mr. Horsley and to Mr. Hensel. And
they felt that they had the cream of the crop, so to
speak.
Teachers were hired, those that went into
teaching as a profession, math majors taught a
lot. So, yeah, school districts came,
engineering companies came, chemical companies
came. It
was a big season always in the fall when the
interviewers came. We had a few come in the spring,
but most interviewing was done in the fall. Oh,
really? Mm-hmm. Even for... May graduates. For a
job, for May graduates, okay. Alright, in your
case, when did the interviewing begin for your
husband? Senior year. Senior year. Do you
remember how many companies he interviewed with?
I don't remember how many he interviewed with. I
remember he got five offers. I do remember that.
And do you remember what the offer was that he took?
How much money? He went to work for ARCO, and I think
it was about $7,000 a year, and we thought that was
big money. Was it already called ARCO, or was it
Atlantic Refining? It was Atlantic Refining at
that time, yes. And he was to report when, where?
Well, right after graduation, we were to report
to... Longview, Texas. He was actually there at a
plant called near Gladewater. And so we lived in
Longview. And I remember that we went out to house
hunt. We didn't know we could ask for an advance on
our salary. So we had a little money that we were
going to look for a place, look for a place to live
and rent an apartment. And we had to stay a couple of
days longer than we anticipated. We ran out of
money and we counted our bank money. We sat on the
floor and rolled the pennies and dimes to pay for
the advance during that time. And you still didn't
have furniture. Oh, no, we didn't have any
furniture. We had a baby bed and a chest and a
bookcase and an air conditioner. I think I had one
in a raffle or something. And that same car. And the
same car, correct. Okay. Let's see. No final
review for this veteran. Commencement was held
where? Do you remember? In Gone Hall. Do you
remember? Was there an important speaker? Do you
remember? I don't remember who it was. It was on a
Saturday morning, I do remember that. And who,
what family, what loved ones came? Don's mother
came from New York for the graduation. And Don's
brother, who had cancer, and he had been staying
with us a lot because he had been in Houston taking
treatments all of Don's senior year. And he and his
wife and their little boy and my sister and her two
children came for that event. And there was an
apartment next to us that was going to be empty, and
we borrowed that one so that we had our apartment
and the empty one for the company. So that's how we
arranged it. And what were your feelings when this
special person started to walk across the stage?
Oh, I was elated. It had been a long four years. Was
there anything, did anybody do anything humorous
at that commencement? Oh no, it was a serious
ceremony. Everybody was serious? And they did get
their diploma? In the tube at that time, that's
correct.